Feature/2021 05 27 chatbot immo (#667)
ordina-jworks/ordina-jworks.github.io: _posts/2021-05-27-Chatbot-Immo.md

The first time the user will have to open a url in the browser to authenticate him/her-self and give consent that the application may have access to the calendar of the user. 
The following times that we need to access the API we can simply use the refresh token to get a new access token from the server.

#### Get authorization code
This step only gets executed the first time that the user logs in. 
So we start the process by asking the Google OAuth 2.0 server for an authorization code.

```Java
@Override
public String getAuthTokenGoogle() throws Exception {
    AuthorizationCodeRequestUrl authorizationUrl;
    GoogleClientSecrets.Details web = new GoogleClientSecrets.Details();
    web.setClientId(googleApiClient);
    web.setClientSecret(googleApiSecret);
    clientSecrets = new GoogleClientSecrets().setWeb(web);
    httpTransport = GoogleNetHttpTransport.newTrustedTransport();
    flow = new GoogleAuthorizationCodeFlow.Builder(httpTransport, JSON_FACTORY, clientSecrets,
            Collections.singleton(CalendarScopes.CALENDAR)).build();
    authorizationUrl = flow.newAuthorizationUrl()
            .setRedirectUri(redirectUri)
            .setAccessType("offline");

>     System.out.println("cal authorizationUrl->" + authorizationUrl);

Reviewer: It is better to use a logger here. :)

    return authorizationUrl.build();
}
```

In the code above we get the url where the user should login. 
We need to pass the client id and the client secret with the request as well as the redirect URI. 
You could also see that I only ask for the calendar scope, which is the only one I needed for this project. 
When the user opens this URL in the browser, the user has to login to his/her Google account after which Google prompts the user for consent to grant access to the calendar. 
When the login is successful, the server will send the authorization code back to the redirect URI specified in the request.

#### Exchange authorization code for refresh and access tokens
When the redirect URI is called, the following function is executed:

> ```Java

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```java
```

@Override
public ResponseEntity<String> callback(String code) {
    com.google.api.services.calendar.model.Events eventList;
    System.out.println(code);
    String message;
    try {
        TokenResponse response = flow.newTokenRequest(code).setRedirectUri(redirectUri).execute();
        credential = flow.createAndStoreCredential(response, "userID");
        System.out.println(credential.getAccessToken() + "----" + credential.getRefreshToken());
        client = new com.google.api.services.calendar.Calendar.Builder(httpTransport, JSON_FACTORY, credential).build();
        Events events = client.events();
        eventList = events.list("primary").setTimeMin(date1).setTimeMax(date2).execute();
        message = eventList.getItems().toString();

>         System.out.println("My:" + eventList.getItems());

Reviewer: Logger should also be used here.

    } catch (Exception e) {
        LOG.warn("Exception while handling OAuth2 callback (" + e.getMessage() + ")."
                + " Redirecting to google connection status page.");
        message = "Exception while handling OAuth2 callback (" + e.getMessage() + ")."
                + " Redirecting to google connection status page.";
    }

>     System.out.println("cal message:" + message);

Reviewer: And here too.

    return new ResponseEntity<>(message, HttpStatus.OK);
}
```

This is the part where we are exchanging the authorization code for the access and refresh tokens.

> When I got those tokens from the server, I saved the refresh token in the application.properties file so I could use it later to get new access tokens.

Reviewer: You can use backticks for inline code styling. Or to refer to files.
```suggestion
When I got those tokens from the server, I saved the refresh token in the `application.properties` file so I could use it later to get new access tokens.
```

Reviewer: I don't really understand these part.
The `application.properties` file contains the config for the application. How is something being saved to it at runtime?

> As a test there is also some code to get the events between two dates, to make sure that I have access to the Google calendar API with the acquired access token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a test, there is also some code to get the events between two dates, to make sure that I have access to the Google calendar API with the acquired access token.
```

#### Getting an access token with the refresh token
In the actual flow I used the refresh token to get an access token from the Google server. 
This can be done with a simple POST request to the server with the client id, client secret and the refresh token. 

> We then get a response with a new access token which we can use to send request to the API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We then get a response with a new access token which we can use to send the request to the API.
```

### Getting the data from the calendar
#### Creating new client

<span class="image left"><img alt="clientObject" src="/img/2021-05-27-Chatbot-Immo/clientObject.jpg" class="image fit" style="margin:0px auto; max-width: 600px;"></span>

As you could see in the code examples above, to have easy access to the calendar and get the events etc. we create a client object. 
The client object is an instance of the Calendar object.

With this object we can get the calendars, the events and much more.

#### Get freebusy schedule

> Because we need the free meeting times off the user, we would need the freebusy schedule. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because we need the free meeting times of the user, we would need the freebusy schedule. 
```

This gives us an overview when the user is busy and we can extract the free meeting times from that. 
To know for which date I have to get the freebusy schedule, I first get the next 5 working days in the chatbot from which the user can choose. 
This date is then forwarded to the API to retrieve the schedule.

> ```Java

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```java
```

List<FreeBusyRequestItem> items = new ArrayList<>();
FreeBusyRequestItem freeBusyRequestItem = new FreeBusyRequestItem();
freeBusyRequestItem.setId("iebemaes");
items.add(freeBusyRequestItem);

Calendar.Freebusy freebusy = client.freebusy();
FreeBusyRequest freeBusyRequest = new FreeBusyRequest();
freeBusyRequest.setTimeMin(dateTimemin);
freeBusyRequest.setTimeMax(dateTimeMax);
freeBusyRequest.setCalendarExpansionMax(2);
freeBusyRequest.setGroupExpansionMax(2);
freeBusyRequest.setTimeZone("UTC");
freeBusyRequest.setItems(items);
Calendar.Freebusy.Query query = freebusy.query(freeBusyRequest);
FreeBusyResponse freeBusyResponse = query.execute();
```

#### Get free meeting times
To get the free meeting times, I made a list with all the timeslots starting every hour. 
Then I looped over this list and the list with the busy timeslots. 
When the start hour of a busy timeslot matched with the start hour of a timeslot from the first list, I deleted this timeslot from the first list. 
That way I ended up with a list with only free timeslots.

#### Send the meeting times back to Chatlayer
Now that we have a list with all the free timeslots, we need to get this list in the chatbot. 

> I wanted the timeslots to appear in the chatbot as quick reply’s. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I wanted the timeslots to appear in the chatbot as quick replies. 
```

For each item in the timeslot list there should be a quick reply item. 

> When I had the correct structure I could send these quick reply’s back to Chatlayer with a simple POST request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When I had the correct structure, I could send these quick replies back to Chatlayer with a simple POST request.
```

> ```Java

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```java
```

        String title=hours[0]+"u tot "+hours[1]+"u";
        quickRepliesItem.setTitle(title);
        quickRepliesItem.setImageUrl("https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/0/08/Simple_icon_time.svg/1200px-Simple_icon_time.svg.png");

        SessionDataToSetItem sessionDataToSetItem=new SessionDataToSetItem();
        sessionDataToSetItem.setKey("chosenTimeSlot");
        sessionDataToSetItem.setValue(meetingTime);

        List<SessionDataToSetItem> sessiondata=new ArrayList<>();
        sessiondata.add(sessionDataToSetItem);

        Payload payload=new Payload();
        payload.setNextDialogstateId("045eac85-9c67-4b44-a0f5-aaacb724dbc6");
        payload.setSessionDataToSet(sessiondata);

        quickRepliesItem.setPayload(payload);
        quickReplies.add(quickRepliesItem);
}
```

### Create an event
The last step in this flow is of course the creation of an event in the calendar. 
When the user has selected a day, a timeslot and entered his/her name and address, the event needs to be saved in the calendar. 
This can also be done with the client object. 
So I pass the previously stated parameters to the API which will create the event.

> ```Java

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```java
```

        EventDateTime start = new EventDateTime();
        start.setDateTime(dateTimemin);
        event.setStart(start);

        java.util.Calendar calEndDate = java.util.Calendar.getInstance();
        calEndDate.setTime(date1);
        calEndDate.add(java.util.Calendar.HOUR_OF_DAY, Integer.parseInt(hours[1]));
        Date endDate = calEndDate.getTime();
        DateTime dateTimeMax = new DateTime(endDate);
        System.out.println(dateTimeMax);

        EventDateTime end = new EventDateTime();
        end.setDateTime(dateTimeMax);
        event.setEnd(end);

        String calendarId ="primary";

        event = client.events().insert(calendarId, event).execute();

}
```
After the event is created in the calendar, I’m sending a response message to the chatbot that the event is created and setting the appropriate next dialog id.

<span class="image"><img alt="chatbotconv part 1" src="/img/2021-05-27-Chatbot-Immo/chatbotConvP1.PNG" class="image fit" style="margin:0px auto; max-width: 500px;"></span>

<span class="image"><img alt="chatbotconv part 2" src="/img/2021-05-27-Chatbot-Immo/chatbotConvP2.PNG" class="image fit" style="margin:0px auto; max-width: 500px;"></span>

> [Have a look at the demo!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qWsC7zrawBA){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"}

Reviewer: Nice! 👍🏼

# Solid
## Introduction to Solid
### Why do we use Solid?
There are a couple issues with the way we handle data for which Solid can provide a solution. 

Some examples of issues today:
* In the personal data domain, there are a couple of big Tech companies who own the biggest part of our data
  * Problems with data-monopolies
    * Security risks
      * Data-breaches
    * Les innovation
    * Political concerns

>       * Have ability to affect the public debate and our perception of right and wrong

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      * Can affect the public debate and our perception of right and wrong
```

>   * Companies are so successful because they have such a large amount of data, not because of there innovations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Companies are so successful because they have such a large amount of data, not because of their innovations
```

>   * Because of these couple big companies its difficult for new companies to innovate because they don’t have the data for it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Because of these couple big companies, it is difficult for new companies to innovate because they don’t have the data for it
```

    * Examples 
      * Google
      * Amazon
      * Facebook

>       * ..

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      * ...
```

  * Little to no control over how your data is used and who is using it
  * …

### What is Solid?
Solid (Social Linked Data), made by Tim Berners-Lee,  is a specification which lets users store their data securely in a decentralized data store called pods. 
Solid itself isn’t much of an innovation, the innovation comes in bringing together different existing rules. 
Solid is based on open specifications just like the web itself. 
Open specifications mean interoperability across a broad ecosystem. 
The goal of Solid is to bring back data driven innovation and data ownership.  

In the Solid ecosystem, there are three important concepts: users, apps and pods. 

User:
* Control which apps, organizations and people can access which part their data
  * Easier data sharing
* Retains ownership and control over the data in his/her pod
* Can have more then one pod
  * Pods can be hosted my the same pod provider or be self-hosted or a combination 

Applications:
* Store and access data in pods
* Can get information from different pods

Pods:
* The data stores where you store your data
* You can store any kind of data in a Solid pod

> * Right now you can get your pod from a pod provider or you could host your pod yourself.

Reviewer: Remove period for consistency.
```suggestion
* Right now you can get your pod from a pod provider or you could host your pod yourself
```

## Self hosting Solid pod server
There are different ways to setup a pod server where you can host your pod(s). 

> I used the Docker container to setup my solid server. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I used the Docker container to setup my Solid server. 
```

To run the docker container I could execute this command in a terminal: 
```
docker run -p 8443:8443 --name solid-server.
```

> If we navigate to localhost:8443, we visit the homepage off the Solid server. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If we navigate to `localhost:8443`, we visit the homepage of the Solid server. 
```

> First we get the message that the page is not secure but when clicking through we arrive at the page where we can register a new account or login to an existing one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First we get the message that the page is not secure but when clicking through, we arrive at the page where we can register a new account or login to an existing one.
```

<span class="image"><img alt="Homepage Solid Server" src="/img/2021-05-27-Chatbot-Immo/homepageSolidServer.jpg" class="image fit" style="margin:0px auto; max-width: 1000px;"></span>

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```json
```

{
  "root": "./data/localhost.com/",
  "port": "8443",
  "serverUri": "https://localhost:8443",
  "webid": true,
  "mount": "/",
  "configPath": "./config",
  "dbPath": "./.db",
  "sslKey": "./privkey.pem",
  "sslCert": "./fullchain.pem",
  "multiuser": true,
  "corsProxy": "/proxy",
  "server": {
    "name": "",
    "description": "",
    "logo": ""
  },
  "enforceToc": true,
  "disablePasswordChecks": false,
  "tocUri": "https://your-toc",
  "supportEmail": "Your support email address"
}
```

When you host a pod server, there are some configuration options which you can modify. 

> I think the most important one here is whether or not you want your server to be able to host more then one pod or not. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I think the most important one here is whether or not you want your server to be able to host more than one pod or not. 
```

> For testing purposes I set the multiuser setting to ‘true’ so my server is capable off hosting multiple pods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For testing purposes, I set the multiuser setting to `true` so my server is capable of hosting multiple pods.
```

### Register
When you want to register an account you need to provide some simple information like your name, email address, password and username. 

> As you can see below, when creating an account, your webId (unique identifier for Solid pods) is made off your username and the domain (in this case is this localhost:8443). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As you can see below, when creating an account, your webId (unique identifier for Solid pods) is made of your username and the domain (in this case this is `localhost:8443`). 
```

> The ‘/profile/card#me’ is just to specify where your profile information is stored. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `/profile/card#me` is just to specify where your profile information is stored. 
```

> When registering a new account you need to add an entry for it in you local hosts file like this: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When registering a new account you need to add an entry for it in you local `hosts` file like this: 
```

## Your data
Of course, the main thing you want to know about Solid is your storage. 
When the pod is created you have these standard sections ready for you. 
The sharing settings for these folders have also been set when the pod is created. 
Profile and public are two folders which everyone can read but not change. 
And as you would expect, private is only for you.

<span class="image"><img alt="Pod Data" src="/img/2021-05-27-Chatbot-Immo/podData.png" class="image fit" style="margin:0px auto; max-width: 1000px;"></span>

### Sharing of data
Within the Solid interface it is very easy to share data with other people, groups, apps… 

<span class="image"><img alt="Pod Sharing" src="/img/2021-05-27-Chatbot-Immo/podSharing.png" class="image fit" style="margin:0px auto; max-width: 1000px;"></span>

You could set these sharing permissions on a folder but also on a specific file. 
In the standard scenario the files inside a folder just inherit the sharing permissions.

Solid also has a nice overview of which applications have access to your pod, and also which kind of access they have (read, write, append or control). 

> In this overview you could also revoke access and update the kind off access that these applications have.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this overview you could also revoke access and update the kind of access that these applications have.
```

<span class="image"><img alt="Pod Trused applications" src="/img/2021-05-27-Chatbot-Immo/podTrusted.png" class="image fit" style="margin:0px auto; max-width: 1000px;"></span>

> As mentioned before you can store any kind of data on your pod, this goes from .txt files, to .html files and even .ttl files. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As mentioned before, you can store any kind of data on your pod, this goes from `.txt` files, to `.html` files and even `.ttl` files. 
```

For this project I’ve chosen to store data in .ttl files because that’s what I saw the most in the documentation. 

### Turtle (RDF)

> Before we can discuss turtle we need to have a basic understanding off RDF and linked data. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before we can discuss Turtle we need to have a basic understanding of RDF and linked data. 
```

RDF stands for Resource Description Framework and is used to describe resources on the internet. 
A resource is anything on the internet, for example: a person, a book… With RDF every resource is described as a triple. 
Those triples consist of a subject, a predicate and an object. 
Using this simple model, data (structured and semi-structured) can be mixed and shared between different applications. 
This linking structure forms a directed and labeled graph. 

<span class="image"><img alt="RDF graph" src="/img/2021-05-27-Chatbot-Immo/rdf.jpg" class="image fit" style="margin:0px auto; max-width: 1000px;"></span>

Turtle itself is a format that allows RDF graphs to be written in a natural text form. 

> Next to N-Triples, JSON-LD and RDF/XML it is one off the four common formats to write RDF. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next to N-Triples, JSON-LD and RDF/XML it is one of the four common formats to write RDF. 
```

> In turtle you can declare prefixes to use as a shortcut throughout the rest of the file so you don’t have to write full URI’s everywhere. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Turtle you can declare prefixes to use as a shortcut throughout the rest of the file so you don’t have to write full URI’s everywhere. 
```

Example:
This is the card file in the profile folder which contains all the information about the user. 

<span class="image"><img alt="profile" src="/img/2021-05-27-Chatbot-Immo/profileCard.png" class="image fit" style="margin:0px auto; max-width: 1000px;"></span>

The full notation for the full name would be:

```
#me http://www.w3.org/2006/vcard/ns#fn Iebe Maes
```

> Because of the short notation Turtle is much easier to understand then the other formats.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because of the short notation, Turtle is much easier to understand than the other formats.
```

### How to access your data?
The login page is built in React.

> The first step in to get information your solid pod is authentication. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first step to get information in your solid pod is authentication. 
```

Luckily Solid has a library with some nice components that make the login process much easier. 

```react
import { LoginButton, LoggedOut, LogoutButton, LoggedIn } from '@solid/react';

<LoggedIn>
        {this.state.needsToLogin ? <GetInformation sendInformation={this.sendInformation} /> : 
        <Row>
                <Col><h1 className="text-  center">Informatie is correct binnengekomen! U mag terugkeren naar de chatbot.</h1></Col>
        </Row>}
</LoggedIn>
<LoggedOut>
        <Row className="justify-content-md-center mt-5">

              <Col md="auto">

                <h1 className="text-center">Welkom!</h1>
                <h3 className="text-center">Gelieve u aan te melden.</h3>
              </Col>

        </Row>
        <Row className="justify-content-center">
                <Col md="auto text-center">

                <LoginButton className="btn btn-primary" popup="popup.html">log in </LoginButton>

              </Col>
        </Row>
</LoggedOut>

```

> The loggedIn and loggedOut component do exactly what you expect them to do, show some content when the user is logged in and show other content when the user isn’t logged in. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `loggedIn` and `loggedOut` component do exactly what you expect them to do, show some content when the user is logged in and show other content when the user isn’t logged in. 
```

> Then we have the loginButton component which shows popup.html which is the popup screen you see in the login section above. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then we have the `loginButton` component which shows `popup.html` which is the popup screen you see in the login section above. 
```

To get the actual data, from for example the profile, you would first need to get the webId. 
You can get this with the react hook provided by the same library from above. 

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```typescript
```

const webId = useWebId();
```

> Then we would need de data object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then we would need the data object.
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```typescript
```

const { default: data } = require('@solid/query-ldflex');
```

> And with the data object and the webId we can get the profile, once we have this object you can ask for anything you see in the structure off the profile card under :me. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And with the data object and the webId, we can get the profile.
Once we have this object you can ask for anything you see in the structure off the profile card under `:me`. 
```

Because your webid is something like “username.domain/profile/card#me”. 

> The profile object we would get would actually be the #me part off the card. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The profile object we would get would actually be the `#me` part of the card. 
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```typescript
```

const profile = data[webId];
```

> To get the full name we place the predicate between [ ] after the profile object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get the full name, we place the predicate between `[ ]` after the profile object.
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```typescript
```

const fn = await profile['http://www.w3.org/2006/vcard/ns#fn']
```

> You can also see that for example the address isn’t stored under the :me part but has an id. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also see that for example the address isn’t stored under the `:me` part but it has an id. 
```

> To get the properties off the address we would have to do something like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get the properties of the address we would have to do something like this:
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```typescript
```

const addressURL = await profile['http://www.w3.org/2006/vcard/ns#hasAddress']

const city = await addressURL['http://www.w3.org/2006/vcard/ns#locality']
const postalCode = await addressURL['http://www.w3.org/2006/vcard/ns#postal-code']
const street = await addressURL['http://www.w3.org/2006/vcard/ns#street-address']
```

# Conclusion

> First off all, I want to thank Ordina for the chance that they have given me to do this internship. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First of all, I want to thank Ordina for the chance that they have given me to do this internship. 
```

Also a special thanks to all three of my mentors: Frederick Bousson, Jasper Rosiers and Hans Vanbellingen! 

> They always provided me with feedback when I finished a part off the solution and would always make time to help me with my questions or to explain things that weren’t clear. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
They always provided me with feedback when I finished a part of the solution and would always make time to help me with my questions or to explain things that weren’t clear. 
```
